the announcement of the potential deal
came just hours after Israel ordered at
least 100,000 Palestinians to leave Rafa
many of those who now find themselves
displaced yet again are heading towards
K Yunis and albala but those two cities
have already been almost completely
destroyed in alh reports from KH Yunis
on what those people are now
facing I'm currently standing on Ben
sua's roundabout inun and as you see
hundreds of Palestinians are currently
evacuating from rafah after the Israeli
forces ordered them to
evacuate earlier today people were
ordered by the Israeli forces to
evacuate to kanun the masasi area and
also to Der balah in central Gaza but as
you see behind meun is completely
destroyed Palestinians have been telling
us that they have been displaced
multiple times they are bored of being
displaced from one place to another and
they also do not trust the Israeli
forces and the Israeli Army because they
have been telling them since the first
day that Rafa was a safe area but as you
see behind me all of these people are
evacuating from
Rafa people are desperate there's a
panic State anger Despair and
frustration rage and and also fear that
they there is no place safe in the gods
of CH all of these people have no idea
where they're going because it's bah and
the central area is also packed we're
talking about un hos un facilities
hospitals schools even empty
agricultural lands are now tents and
hundreds of thousands of people settled
there this placed multiple times from a
place to another from Central to the
South Palestinians are left in Despair
and fear not knowing where to go where
no place in the Gaza Strip is safe this
is hind Al
jaunes Gaza
Palestine Alexandra say is the head of
humanitarian policy and advocacy with
save the children International she
joins us now from Washington DC welcome
to the program how alarmed are you by
this escalating Israeli bombardment
now well we're extremely alarmed by
reports of intensify intensifying
Israeli bombardment Ina particularly
around the crossing point and we have
been warning for months how catastrophic
an expanded incursion into Raa will be
not only do we now fear Mass civilian
casualties but potentially the complete
collapse of the humanitarian Aid
response in Gaza which has already
struggled to keep the population alive
if uh the bombardment around Rafa
continues and if we see a closure of the
crossing point which has been the
primary land route used by the a
agencies to move uh assistance into Gaza
um you know there will be almost no Aid
uh coming into Gaza no other crossing
point to date has managed to replace
Rafa not K Shalom and not Aras which is
still not fully operational and so if we
continue seeing what we're seeing it'll
lead to an even more catastrophic
situation we will likely see um uh an
acceleration in the rates of starvation
even more people will die of
malnutrition dehydration and disease and
a lack of medical assistance Israel has
talked about so-called safe zones but in
reality is anywhere in Gaza
safe nowhere in Gaza is safe and we're
extremely alarmed by the new relocation
orders that were issued by Israel to
more than 100,000 people in in Raa
earlier today there are hundreds of
children who are maimed who have lost
one or more of their limbs um many
children who um are malnourished they're
suffering from chronic uh illnesses uh
diseases um illnesses like cancer uh
elderly who are weak who are starved
these people cannot flee by foot to
another area the relocation orders that
were issued um do not offer any safety
and the humanit the so-called
humanitarian Zone that they were uh told
to go to is not humanitarian these areas
do not offer the services that are
needed to survive and again no area in
Gaza so far has proven to be safe time
and time again families have been told
to flee and then they are attacked where
they are told to flee to and not
withstanding of course the design master
that this is for civilians how difficult
is it for Aid workers to operate
now well we've seen time and time again
Aid workers um being killed in Gaza more
than 250 Aid workers so far the majority
Palestinian have been killed over the
last seven months we have not seen any
guarantee of safety for Aid workers or
civilians and again an is an Israeli
expanded Israeli incursion into daa
where the Hub of the humanitarian
response sits right now is going to
spell an even more catastrophic
situation possibly the darkest and
deadliest chapter of this crisis to date
Alexandra say we'll leave it there from
save the children International thank
you very much indeed for joining us here
on
aler thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz